---
layout: post
title: Wishlist, September 2017
categories: articles
excerpt: "Our current Wishlist"
share: true
author: rick_havourd
---

[Click here to download this document as a 
PDF.](http://www.michigantakesflight.org/images/mtf-wishlist-2017-09-25.pdf)

# The Aviator Challenge

The primary goal of Michigan Takes Flight is to promote general aviation in the greater Flint area. There is no better 
way to do this than by giving someone the opportunity to earn their Private Pilots License. This accomplishment is by 
far the greatest single achievement a budding pilot will ever attain. Although it is the first of many possible steps, 
the challenges are the greatest:

- Obtain FAA Medical Certificate
- Satisfactorily complete FAA Airman Knowledge Exam
- 20-Hours minimum of flight training with a certified flight instructor
- 10-Hours minimum of solo flying

- Minimum financial commitment of $9,000. National average of flight hours suggest this could be $12,000.

These few items only highlight the commitment necessary as each item presents its own challenges. Please refer to the 
Michigan Takes Flight "Minimum Costs to Budget for Learning to Fly" document, available online at 
[http://www.michigantakesflight.org/articles/costs-of-flying/](http://www.michigantakesflight.org/articles/costs-of-flying/).

Launch one students career with _The Aviator Challenge_: $12,000.

# Get Your Wings

The cost of operating an airplane is, by far, the single most expensive category for one learning to fly. Provide a 
student with 20-hours supervised flight which includes both the cost of airplane operation as well as a certified 
flight instructor to ensure mastery of the aircraft is attained.

Help one student safely _Get Their Wings_ in the air with an instructor: $4,900.

# Leaving the Nest

Once a student has gained mastery of operating an airplane, their instructor will endorse them for solo flight. The 
first step in this keystone moment is the First Solo. All of the student training has led to this point: the instructor 
exists the airplane and the student is now in complete command of the aircraft. From engine-start, taxi to the runway, 
takeoff and landing. The student is the master of their destiny. This is certainly the one moment all pilots will 
remember for their entire lives.

Be there when one student is first _Leaving the Nest_: $1,500.

# Ready for Takeoff

Before any student can become a pilot, they must pass the FAA's Aeronautical Exam. This high-stakes exam consists 
of 60 questions administered within a 2.5 hour limitation. While that might only be 2.5 minutes per question, many of 
the questions are multi-part with diagrams and necessary references. All aspects of aeronautical information are tested 
and the student finds him or herself challenged on everything they have learned to date.

To help prepare for this exam, students are required by the FAA to receive and log ground training from an authorized 
instructor or complete a home-study course. Oftentimes, students utilize both options in order to gain the necessary 
understanding.

Make one student _Ready for Takeoff_: $600.

# Dress for Success

Along with the obvious requirements of airplanes, instructors, and course materials, a student pilot also needs a 
&quot;flight bag&quot;. This essential component is actually comprised of a collection of items, all of which are 
costly: Pilot flight bag, aviation headset, flight manual, aviation charts, and kneeboard.

Outfit one student for the flightline: $500.

# Community Aviator

All of the above items are focused on the success and accomplishments of a single student. If your goal is to support 
the community then the Community Aviator program is for you. Michigan Takes Flight sponsors many seminars and 
educational opportunities for the general public through its association with Greater Flint Pilots Association, Federal 
Aviation Administration Safety Team, Experimental Aircraft Association, local flight instructors, and FAA medical 
practitioners.

Support the greater Flint community as a _Community Aviator_ at whatever level fits your budget. We truly appreciate 
any donation and the commitment it affords.


